# RRBS-Analysis-Pipeline
This repository contains a pipeline for analysing Reduced Representation Bisulfite Sequencing (RRBS) data. The workflow performs quality control, read trimming, alignment, methylation calling, and downstream analysis of DNA methylation data.  The pipeline is designed to be reproducible and adaptable to different RRBS datasets.
## Workflow
1. `01_methylseq.sh`
### Purpose
   - Runs the nf-core/methylseq pipeline.
### Inputs
   - FASTQ files listed in `samplesheet.csv.`
### Output
   - Output: methylation calls and cytosine reports...
### Usage
```bash
Scripts/01_methylseq.sh
```

2. `02_differential_methylation.R`
### Purpose
Performs differential DNA methylation analysis between experimental groups using the methylation coverage data generated by `01_methylseq.sh` 
### Inputs
- Working directory (`direc`)
  - Directory containing the methylation_coverage data (../bismark/methylation_calls/methylation_coverage).
- Sample annotation file (`target`)
  - Excel file containing sample metadata and group assignments.
- Worksheet name (`target_sheet`)
  - Name of the worksheet corresponding to the comparison (e.g., `Female_BBzP`, `Male_BBzP`).
### Usage
```bash
Rscript scripts/03_differential_methylation.R \
    results/annotation \
    metadata/sample_sheetFA1.xlsx \
    Female_BBzP
```
### Output
The script generates:
- Differentially methylated CpGs.
- Summary tables of significant results.
- Statistics (e.g., p-values, adjusted p-values, methylation differences).
- Figures.

The output is used as input for `03_annotation.R`.
```
3. `03_annotation.R`
   - Annotates CpG sites or differentially methylated regions.
   - Input: methylseq output.
   - Output: annotated methylation tables.

4. `04_enrichment.R`
   - Performs GO/pathway enrichment analysis.
   - Input: genes associated with differentially methylated regions.
   - Output: enriched pathways and figures.
